in kid ukraine
an unnamed operative akka the
protagonist assists in a cia assignment
to foil an opera siege and retrieve a
stolen cache of plutonium
during the operation the plutonium is
found to be fake
but the protagonist is saved by a masked
gunman with a red string on his back
the protagonist is then abducted and
threatened with torture until he bites
on an apparent suicide pill
before revealing any information upon
waking
the protagonist learns the pill was a
test of his loyalty
he is recruited into a secret
organization given only the information
that the word tenet and a cross-fingered
gesture will open many doors for him
the protagonist infiltrates a facility
where he learns that in the future
technology has been developed that
allows objects to have their entropy
reversed
and move backward through time to
demonstrate this
a scientist presents him with bullets
that fire in reverse
tracking the metal from which the
reversed bullets are made
the protagonist infiltrates the compound
of an indian billionaire with the aid of
neil
a british intelligence agent he learns
that it is in fact the billionaire's
wife
priya who knows what is happening priya
tells the protagonist
that the time reversing technology is
under the control of a russian arms
dealer
andre sater who is in communication with
an unknown agency from the future
in order to get to seder the protagonist
approaches his estranged wife kat
kat tells the protagonist that sader has
her under his control due to a forged
painting
that she gave to him the protagonist
tries to win the trust of cat
by crashing a cargo plane into a
warehouse and retrieving the painting
from it within a freeport at oslo
airport
during the operation however the
protagonist and neil are attacked by two
masked men
one of whom is using a time-reversed gun
the attacker escapes before the
protagonist is able to find out who he
is
the protagonist returns to kat asking
for her help in meeting seder
kat arranges for the protagonist to
attend a dinner party
hosted by seder but the oligarch does
not trust the protagonist
the protagonist bargains for his life by
offering to steal weapons-grade
plutonium for seder
the protagonist succeeds in stealing the
plutonium from an armored car
but is interrupted by a time-reversed
vehicle
the protagonist uncovers seder and his
gang's plot
they are operating a temporal pincer
movement in which they move both
forwards and backward in time
at the temporal junction seder shoots
cat and leaves with her before
reinforcements arrive to secure the
temporal style
the protagonist neil and cat follow
seder backward in time
traveling in a cargo ship container back
to oslo
the trio infiltrates the freeport art
storage facility once again
where they enter another temporal style
that allows cat
to move forwards through time again and
have her gunshot wound healed
further back in time a military
operation is launched whereby the
protagonist and kneel attempt to
retrieve the doomsday device from an
abandoned soviet era city
while cat is with her husband on his
yacht cat kills seder
while the protagonist and neil are able
to retrieve the doomsday device in time
during this operation the protagonist
notices that neil has a red string on
his back
and that he was therefore the masked man
who saved him during the opera siege
the protagonist then saves cat from
being killed by priya after all of the
film's events
revealing that he has been the leader of
tenet operations for two years in the
past
you